okay let's get this party started  hey
okay let's get this party started hey
everyone welcome to storybond design
discussions today  we're gonna talk
discussions today we're gonna talk
about two topics transient storage and
upgradable contracts I'm going to take
over  Justin and
over Justin and
I apologize in advance for my nasal
sound I'm a bit congested
is Dima here yes  Dima do you wanna
is Dima here yes Dima do you wanna
take us through transient storage
yeah sure
so is this really a pretty small
feature and  I don't really want to
feature and I don't really want to
spend too much time on it like if you
think we don't need it let's just drop
it but basically the idea he said
it's also next  the cross contract
it's also next the cross contract
interactions
are much more capable than without it
for example  if a contract
for example if a contract
wants to do  some temporary allowance
wants to do some temporary allowance
to distribute funds between multiple
receivers or something like that
it could create cause increase
allowance function and and do as a
corresponding expert transfer phone call
right
and the thing is that allowance in
this case  is not needed to be
this case is not needed to be
persisted and my initial intention here
why I came up with this ready in the
first place is that I didn't want the
token to have any persisted allowances
but
yeah this was a topic we have
discussed  last week and it doesn't
discussed last week and it doesn't
seem like the general consensus is that
the time being on the persistent
allowances to still remain in the token
yeah but original this idea was if you
want to create something that is needed
only for the duration of the
time
you could use this ephemeral storage or
whatever his name is and basically its
benefits were that
it doesn't need to be included in the
footprint
and it doesn't need to be written to The
Ledger which is beneficial both from the
like transaction size standpoint
transaction costs 10 point and it's
beneficial for The Ledger as well
and
the other thing is that from the
interface 10 point it probably
would be pretty simply to use from the
SDK perspective because we can
abstract it away if needed and
meaning some generic interprets or maybe
you can switch your plug or something so
I wouldn't be too concerned about SDK
side but I guess the main concern is
that valves running too many use cases
for that
at least yet and I kind of agree
especially if he
just don't want to go with temporary
allowances and we go with persistent
allowances
yeah I I think I I don't actually
want to upload the token interface with
like multiple allowance types or
something like that so you know you can
drop it all we we can view it but not
use it in token I don't have a really
strong opinion like there are definitely
some interested cases one can come up
with you know one contract calls another
contract multiple times and then as a
contract made want to maintain some
state
but
yeah maybe this cases are too narrow to
worry about them now
I guess that's I have to sleep now
got it so it is worth mentioning that
this thing has been discussed a lot in
the ethereum ecosystem and I think
they're getting pretty close to actually
putting something like this  that's
putting something like this that's
the AP 1153  transient storage op
the AP 1153 transient storage op
codes
and in the ethereum ecosystem it's also
something that's been
considered in the context of
re-entrancy attacks because it allows
you to basically kind of like a contract
instead of flag that it's like being
processed right now and then  and then
processed right now and then and then
if there's like a re-entrance  then
if there's like a re-entrance then
the contract can check that flag  I
the contract can check that flag I
think for us it's less relevant right
now because there's no re-engency
possibility at all and I think that if
we're gonna add re-entrancy possibility
there's probably going to be a flag in
the call function that allows you to set
like whether or not you you accept that
so I think that's less of a motivation
for  for for sorobon
for for for sorobon
my question to you do you mind I think I
asked this in the past aside from the
allowances use case
is there are there any other
examples that you can point out too
so actually speaking of reinsurance I I
think if we do it in whatever ways it
might be actually useful and I just
forgot to talk about this
I I don't know if I don't think there
are planning arrangements for everyone
maybe eventually I feel like it will
be beneficial to be able to write some
Perfection bits even if it is
controllable on the individual contract
overall
but otherwise  I don't think I have a
but otherwise I don't think I have a
super good concrete example
I've been thinking generally about you
know us tickets
for approvals it's just
a case of that but you know
in general you can imagine something
like a custom accounts a smartphone
creating
some authorization tickets that might be
used during the
execution time for multiple calls but
you know I I guess the main issue here
is that
since
this thing like this does not exist for
example in a cage yet right I I guess
run many users of that because well
there's no such feature
so yeah but I cannot come up with
like I'm very convincing case right now
like I have just some fake ideas I don't
know obviously it can be implemented
efficiently in azervation maybe they can
yeah but the important part is that well
yeah like I understand that use cases
are probably not that obvious but also
the maintenance cost is pretty low as
well so it's not like a huge shade of
it's not very good you know complicated
subsystem we need to maintain as well so
yeah that's something big
got it so I think that given that last
week we decided to keep  long lasting
week we decided to keep long lasting
approval or persistent approvals  and
approval or persistent approvals and
given that
you know simple authorizations are
handled by off next without actually
requiring
allowances at all
I would say that this is a pretty narrow
use case and
and we'll clutter the
the asset interface
so I definitely agree with the sentiment
that
we shouldn't include it and I wonder if
anyone else on this call has a different
thinking about that
so you're saying not only remove it or
like don't make any changes the token
contract but also  remove it from and
contract but also remove it from and
the SDK right because it's been that
like the the tooling for this has
already been implemented right
yeah my vote would be to remove it
especially given that it's  such a
especially given that it's such a
narrow use case and also
you know with  State expiration we
you know with State expiration we
have a lot of different storage
mechanics in  in the end and I think
mechanics in in the end and I think
that adding another storage mechanic
can just add to the product confusion
for Developers
yeah I agree if we're not going to use
it then  and we don't have any other
it then and we don't have any other
good use cases I'm fine with removing it
yeah at 10 degrees well  it  it does
yeah at 10 degrees well it it does
sound like a very cool feature  but it
sound like a very cool feature but it
also
to a large degree it's an
optimization and
yeah there definitely is like a
complexity cost to developers needing to
be aware of this thing so you know
knowing
that it should or shouldn't be in a
footprint which I guess is largely taken
to get you know care of by the fact that
we generate the footprints for people
but
may have developers needing to make a
choice about what they use it just seems
like one more thing that people need to
know and learn about or make a decision
about
that for the most part it sounds like
we would be telling people
don't use this  this isn't something
don't use this this isn't something
that you would use except for you know
these these educations
that is a very strong opinion I I can
imagine finding use cases for it but if
we're aiming for minimalism then I guess
we remove it I don't really care
is it in the current release the release
has just gone in now
okay  it sounds like  we're pretty
okay it sounds like we're pretty
in agreement right now on removing
this
so
I will  we'll go to the next topic
I will we'll go to the next topic
which is upgradable content
yeah yeah one small thing on this like
since it is in the current release
someone comes up is a good idea for use
case  please let me know
case please let me know
because you know if there is
something legitimate that people can use
right now and they they can play with it
so you know we if it is if it seems
useful like we can reconsider this trade
because it's not really correct oh it is
not no right oh okay that's a bit
unfortunate
oh okay I guess you still can write
if you have some ideas yeah
yeah and once it's asking if it was it
wouldn't be a complicated to include
Post Main net  it will be somewhat
Post Main net it will be somewhat
complicated in a sense that it will
require a protocol release but
yeah it just will be one not complicated
okay  next topic is upgradable
okay next topic is upgradable
contract so Dima you distributed a doc
a couple weeks ago that outlines
three different proposals  and you've
three different proposals and you've
implemented one of them can you give
us a brief overview on the different on
the problem and the different solutions
and focus on the one that you're
proposing
yeah sure
basically
I essentially want some contract
upgrade mechanism to be shipped in V1
just because if there is no such
mechanisms and contracts written in V1
will stay unupgradeable forever because
no matter what mechanic we come up with
it will need to be controlled by the
contract itself and you know if contract
doesn't have an updating kindness there
is no way it can upgrade itself
so it is of course possible with the
current tool set to build something like
a proxy but the issue is that
the state
will need to like the state of the proxy
contract has to belonged as a top level
contract 80 and currently it's not
possible to achieve it so we need
something to address this issue  which
something to address this issue which
is why I had things a proposal an
assumption line were said okay we could
add some sort of storage delegation
mechanism which I think someone quoted
existed in Solana  maybe some other
existed in Solana maybe some other
chain I believe it was one but it could
be wrong here but basically it's just
one of the approaches that is possible
or you say hey I allow  or not yeah I
or you say hey I allow or not yeah I
allows that contract I'm calling to
actually be using my storage it's  not
actually be using my storage it's not
super straightforward to implement I I
guess
and also it is going to be relatively
manual in terms of like besides the
storage delegation mechanism you still
need to write all the focusing machine
Machinery which might be an overkill for
some cases so second option insert
option but basically three depends
options three develop since option two
and
yeah for the option two what we do is we
just
allows the contracts to update their
conflict executable entry as we call it
now or basically contract says
this is a reference to my
implementation versus references hash of
the Verizon web installed engine so
this is Proposal with Zipcar is already
deserve it just to allow  contracts to
deserve it just to allow contracts to
call host function and update the hash
of this wasn't blob to be some other
value
performs an updates so basically the
update logic and authorization logic is
on the contract developer which makes
sense a
he wants to have different authorization
approaches to this
but the main point is that
it is now possible to just upgrade
the button that has been used as an
addendum to that is if you folks
suggested then the
I have this implemented as well
we will and
wasn't hash to their
standardized signature payload for sales
just so that you know
will will basically get a
some feedback if something has been
updated once they were sending the
transaction
which I guess might make sense if
something has been signed a while ago
well yeah that's kind of  safety
well yeah that's kind of safety
measure that's  comes with this
measure that's comes with this
obviously there are some security
concerns but
my guess is that this is not
significantly more different
contract
uality based sequels it can be strong
funds from it or something like that
there are some angles to attack service
contracts and so on and so forth so
basically it's ultimately on the
contract developers and the good thing
about this approach is that it is very
easy to tell that the contract is
upgradable
like it cannot be obfuscated as far as I
understand because you need to follow
the host function and kind of obfuscate
the plus function calls but
should be visible even from the Vasan
blobs that the contract is subgradable
yeah and also as a benefit compared to
the first option where we just automate
in the
storage access  this approach
storage access this approach
allows to easily extends the interface
so for example say you have some nft
contract and then after a year nft
standard has been ironed out and some
new functions have been added to it you
may just update implementation of your
nft and provide some new functions
that's maybe a bad example I don't
know if that happens or not but you get
the idea right that it's possible to
extend the interface without any special
machinery and it's compatible with them
and host environment
and option three is just another
feature on top of that
where we allow besides a point
generator wasn't hash be allowed to
point it a different contract
and use these different contracts wasn't
hash as implementation
and once this gives us basically a like
very cheap  proxy pattern or it is
very cheap proxy pattern or it is
possible to do centralized upgrades
of the implementation on a bunch of
contracts
this is how I have noticed
some bigger contracts work like uni
swap I believe
where they have some implementation
contract and you know it can be updated
in various ways for example there could
be some voting or something like this so
again authorization is kind of on the
contract Traders and it can be as
complex as needed and then soon as the
implementation is updated every instance
of the contract gets  update
of the contract gets update
immediately which is close
fast and cheap and it is
of course more narrow use case than just
upgrading a single contract instance but
arguably it is pretty important as well
because well it affects maybe a smaller
fraction of the contractors are likely
the most
meaningful contracts like uni swap so
basically this will probably concern
anyway token mm implementations and
stuff like that because
this tend to have many
instances and say probably
should be controlled by a single entity
a lot of the time
so yeah this is options option two is
that is  yeah all the parses there so
that is yeah all the parses there so
it's only a matter of review and it's
very easy extending it is not hard as
well
so I don't see a very good reason to
not do that besides maybe some
additional ux complexity but
I saw some folks had some
I won't say that so and that's
so I I do feel like there's there's one
possible solution that is  not
possible solution that is not
mentioned here and it it may be because
it's like really bad from a performance
perspective but you could always create
like a a simple
kind of like  contract that's that
kind of like contract that's that
just like  stores things  so like a
just like stores things so like a
storage access contract and then the
proxy can like
you know can can pass that as an
argument to whatever
implementation contract it uses right
now right and and that's something
that's pretty much doable now
yeah I guess that's an option that kind
of yes of house
supports for option one it is still like
still wouldn't tell for the interface
updates
as I mentioned and of course this is
really really slow and
I think it's all enough to the point of
being
as well as your attaching the storage
wasn't like a couple of times
okay
separate separate to the performance
issue I am curious on how authentication
auth would work in that
in that flow
like with the auth be
between the two contracts or
like how would you
like the nice thing about
auth
for users or with the contractors
you're sort of like scoping their users
access
potentially but
would we be able to do the same thing
for a contract that's deeper I guess we
can with auth next
sorry I like which approach are you
referring to I'm just talking about what
time it is the idea time it was sharing
where data is
I guess it doesn't really matter you
just like your storage interface instead
of like calling storage through then if
you would call storages and as a
contract and another contract would
rely on the invoker being the admin
something exists
so basically
it is definitely doable
other or not it's a good idea isn't
probably it's not the best CD
but I mean yeah it kind of works
and presumably it's a bad idea because
we were talking about  what I
we were talking about what I
described as like three separate wasn't
environments in it right
yeah it's a ton of  of the Cross VM
yeah it's a ton of of the Cross VM
calls and I mean every storage Bridge
would be another VM  read the right
would be another VM read the right
would be a VM code and VM codes are
really expensive that's the most
expensive thing you can do which is why
kind of in favor of
built-in mechanisms because
besides providing some unique features
they are also much more efficient
Point like additional VM instantiations
which are expensive
right but if we if we go in the path of
introducing protocol changes  for this
introducing protocol changes for this
you can imagine that like this and again
I'm not attached to this idea in any way
but you can imagine a world in which we
take this you know simple
contract
like simple storage contract and and
nativize that
so that
so that it's native code
I'm not sure how would we negative is it
it won't be possible
oh yeah
well so is that worth doing like I
I'm curious why  the like this that
I'm curious why the like this that
approach is more beneficial than the
solution too like just using the host
function
that's that's a good question so I I
think solution to is is possible my
my knee-jerk reaction the solution too
is that the fact that a contract
implementation can change is
is not trivial like it's it's it's
you know especially if you look at other
smart contract platforms out there right
now
I feel like that is going to be
something that is a bit
more difficult for people to wrap their
heads around
I'm not sure how is it different from
the processor
implementation change is exactly what
happens it says that
instead of changing the contract that
is serving as implementation you are
changing the implementation itself which
is actually  easier to trace a generic
is actually easier to trace a generic
fashion because it's independent of any
contracts
yes from  from  from a user
yes from from from a user
perspective I agree with you but if you
look at the you know if you look at the
usdc contract which is a proxy contract
right now this you know it never changes
right it's always still the proxy
contract and the state changes and
there's like a different address that it
forwards to but the contract itself
didn't change right it's like an
observer perspective  like like a
observer perspective like like a
block Observer perspective
well is it actually a good thing
I don't think
I think that's a good thing because I I
think the fact that the actual code that
runs like the fact that the actual
contract code and this is semantics
so just there's a thing right it's a
contract Behavior may change and it is
actually hard to notice that it has
changed pressing the second solution
emit an event probably and it will be
very clear that the implementation has
changed I think it is  it actually
changed I think it is it actually
makes things  more observable safer
makes things more observable safer
right because  well you can argue yeah
right because well you can argue yeah
it is just a proxy right but it may
point it at a different implementation
and if block Explorer actually cared
about that it would be pretty tricky for
break it would need to know how exactly
this proxy reference is being stored or
you know introduce and standard based
events or something so I don't quite
agree that
it's necessarily a better thing because
it creates a false Impressions that the
contract doesn't change  or it
contract doesn't change or it
actually like its Behavior actually does
change in fact
but it's just sophisticated
yeah I think I think there's there's
basically no way for us to I I agree
with Gemma here I think there's there's
no way for us to
prevent contract behavior from
changing contracts can just can just
change Behavior that's that's that's
their nature they don't always if they
did one thing yesterday they don't
necessarily do the same thing today
because they might have code in them
that says you know if it's Wednesday do
something different right there's
there's always the possibility for
contract changing
what what you're getting out of
something being built into the protocol
is a standard way of expressing a
pattern of contract change and so block
explorers or anyone else can actually
observe that particular type of change
which is upgrades and upgrades are
you know the least pathological and most
expected type of contract change which
is that someone just pushes an update to
their contract because
like life goes on and they've added
teachers or they fix bugs that's that's
something everyone does in software and
so I think expressing it in protocol is
actually a good idea I'm in favor
I think I think two or even three I
think three can be layered on top of two
like it can be done as a future
extension so if it's going like MVP like
we could just do
number two initially and then have you
know an additional
flag on the thing called indirect
reference rather than direct reference
and that's not the end of the world but
I I think building another product I
mean this is like I'm a broken record I
always want to build stuff into the
protocol so this is no surprise coming
from me but
I'm definitely on the do it in a
protocol level it's it's 100 of
contracts are going to want to upgrade
themselves at some point so it feels
like supporting that is is quite natural
yeah I think that was a really good
explanation from D mind grade I'm
I've changed my mind
also one more Point like you have
mentioned native as in the contract I
don't think you have a good user story
for that  but I think actually this
for that but I think actually this
functionality probably can be leveraged
because I'm
not 100 sure if it will be ever able to
kind of make current contract
implementations native without a lot of
fun guns especially like
alternative implementations of the same
interface that are slightly different
which means that you know in the future
you could say update current contract
not tourism but to any different
implementation
so that's another consideration and
another benefit of having this in
protocol versus just something that Hulk
builds with contracts
foreign
there's one aspect of  the way this
there's one aspect of the way this
we're implementing this that I I saw
getting discussed in Discord
there was conversation about changing
how Earth worked
with updating so that
signatures froth included the the
wasn't hash itself so that if an update
occurs everyone's signatures get
invalidated I I'm curious
I guess like what the motivation for
that is
yeah I'm to be clear I am kind of
neutral to that idea I think you can
either do it or not do it
there's a motivation was mostly about
culture and security implications like
it adds
some degree of additional confidence
right in what you're signing
coming back to the most example of Hayes
is the same contract well it kind of can
be sure
and I think this makes the most sense
when
probably  more concerned not about the
probably more concerned not about the
implementation changing to something
that is  clearly malicious say you
that is clearly malicious say you
know there was a token balance and
sensor it's an update and
admin now can transfer your whole
token balance elsewhere oh they probably
can do this anyway but I got the point
right so like we are not talking about
malicious upgrades here but let's say
you just want  contracts to be audited
you just want contracts to be audited
if they are updated like you do not
trust contracts by default would say we
have some database of trusted contracts
right and if the contract is getting
updated chances are it won't immediately
get to this database for example you
know we can connect your wallet to it or
something like this
which kind of makes it reasonable to
just sign for a certain implementation
and you know if it has changed then it
will basically get to learn it about
this or something like that so basically
your wallet will be more aware about
what you are signing and
there is more
possibilities for the audit
let's get inside of course this is all
just Theory I don't know this will
happen in reality but this is something
that we enable if we add implementation
to the US payload so let's say it again
yeah yeah because it sounds it sounds
like I wasn't sure if this was like part
of the core idea what which I think it
sounds like it's something we're just
sort of considering on the side then
yeah I think my concern about it is that
it's more of like an advanced user it
sounds like more of something that like
an advanced user would care about I'm
not the general user
and to enforce something like that on
the general user I think would actually
create problems you know in the moment
that a contract upgrades anybody who's
currently submitting your transaction is
going to fail the vast majority of those
users probably don't care and they
probably just want to go and gonna have
to go resign something that they would
have been happy to go through anyway
and I think I like
we always have the weak link that a
contract developer could just implement
the proxy button sorry that you know the
thing that you're signing doesn't change
but the thing with the logic actually is
will
yeah sure it's  I guess as I said it's
yeah sure it's I guess as I said it's
more about the question of Trust
basically let's say
you have some swap contract that doesn't
actually hold any balances so it doesn't
really care about
you know if someone can suddenly drain
funds from it but you do care about its
implementation and  again this kind of
implementation and again this kind of
needs some
mechanisms for
accessing some audited
implementations
results that of course it makes zero
sense
with that it makes some sense for the
cases when you have some contracts that
per C doesn't matter much because yes
country proxy proxy pattern could be
implemented right but then you know like
would you trust this contract in the
first place right yeah talking about
this use case for you know you worry
about the contracts being audited and
right that's something I don't really
know for now how that would work right
because in general having some trusted
contracts  contract implementation
contracts contract implementation
databases is
something that seems like a good idea
but for those days will need to be built
by community and I don't know to each
degree
only to cover all the cases so yeah
as I said I'm kind of partial in the
city as well I
I understand some arguments for it and
interest against it you know for some
it will be just an annoyance thing
not sure maybe we should ask for Timbers
and thinkers opinions because saber
advocating for
I didn't maybe they have more arguments
as well right yeah so I'm I don't
disagree that this this probably has
some utility
but
I feel like there's an opportunity here
for us to implement this in such a way
that it's not
required you know it's not part of the
like you know if we make it part of the
signature then in theory
everybody has to buy us into this model
this very very over cautious I'm only
going to use something that's
yeah like basically buying into that
whereas
if we find a different way to implement
that requirement
such that it's not actually part of the
signature but maybe of the invocation
but maybe it's part of the you know like
we have the footprint for example maybe
we have something like the footprint
that lists out the wasm hashes of the
contracts that you're invoking and the
protocol just checks that so it's
actually part of the the signature for
the actual invocation but it's part of
the signature for the transaction maybe
I don't know
yeah actually that's a great point now
that I think about it you kind of
oh it's not you it's a transaction
Source who is signing the footprint
but that's an interesting point if
the contract updates
that transactions will anyway fail
because they are accessing a different
wage or entry
it just kind of interesting right
like of course it needs to happen in in
the short time window between like
pre-flight snapshot getting updated and
the contribution update is in this
window and the transactions will still
fail so
yeah I don't know if it would
necessarily be part of the footprint but
maybe something like the footprint if it
can't be part of the same thing yeah
just where you could list out you know
these are the contracts that I'm willing
to be executed in this oh right yeah but
yeah but but truly thinking about it
it seems like the window where you
would sign something
basically you could just do this soft
chain right maybe you shouldn't really
worry about plotting the transactions
with this because like if you really
care about that and your wallet has some
logic that can that has some base of
trust and implementations right
it just can be maintained  by doing
it just can be maintained by doing
some redundantly requests to the lecture
snapshots that are presumably fresh and
probably from the security system point
it's going to be really that much
different from signing the version hash
because
the time window for the contract has
been updated but the snapshot of The
Ledger hasn't been updated kind of
coincides with the pre-flight call
anyway so
your transaction will still probably
fail because it has invalid footprint
maybe signature shouldn't be even
concerned about that like
first really need to align for you to
basically
sign a call without knowing that the
contract has been updated and actually
relating it as I'm not sure
possible so yeah I think that's maybe a
good point and
we shouldn't worry about it's too much
and it seems like the just the forward
side implementation is reasonably safe
if you really  concerned about what
if you really concerned about what
contracts you're calling
are there any other open questions
Dima about the implementation of
proposal number two that you want to
consult with with a group
actually I think it's super
straightforward
yeah I think it's pretty easy to use and
doesn't introduce too much percent
unless as well so yeah
okay
are there any other questions from
anyone else on stage or in the audience
okay  this has been  very productive
okay this has been very productive
thank you all  and  we can keep
thank you all and we can keep
chatting on the  on Discord  if you
chatting on the on Discord if you
have any further questions
have a great day y'all